Add documentation for new schema development/proposal process (#1429)
AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenTimelineIO: docs/tutorials/developing-a-new-schema.md

# Schema Proposal and Development Workflow

## Introduction

This document describes a process for proposing and developing a new schema for the
[OpenTimelineIO project](https://opentimeline.io).

The process includes several steps:

* Proposing at a TSC meeting and gathering interested parties for feedback
    * Outlining example JSON
* Implementing and iterating on a branch
* Building support into an adapter as a demonstration
* Incrementing other schemas that are impacted (Eg. Changes to `Clip` to
  implement `Media Multi Reference`

## Examples

> There have been at this point a number of schemas introduced well into
> OpenTimelineIO's development.  These include:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A number of schemas have been proposed and introduced during
OpenTimelineIO's development.  These include:

```

* [ImageSequenceReference](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenTimelineIO/pull/602)
* [SpatialCoordinates](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenTimelineIO/pull/1219)
* [Multi media-reference](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenTimelineIO/pull/1241)

## Core schema or Plugin?

> A reminder that OpenTimelineIO has a number of plugin mechanisms, including the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenTimelineIO has a number of plugin mechanisms, including the
```

[Schemadef](write-a-schemadef).  Plugin schemadefs are great for things that

> won't be broadly useful to folks or are specific to a particular studio,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aren't expected to be useful to the broader community, or are specific to a particular studio,
```

workflow, or practice.  Example of this might be a reference to a proprietary
database or a proprietary effect.  They can also be a good place to prototype a
particular schema before proposing it to the community for adoption.

## Proposal

> A proposal can be as fleshed out as a proposed implementation or as vague as an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A proposal can be as fleshed out as a proposed implementation, or as vague as an
```

idea.  Presenting the proposal at a Technical Steering Committee for discussion
is preferred so that interested parties can form a working group if necessary.

> The goal is to find view points / impacts that might not have been considered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of a TSC presentation would be to find view points / impacts that might not have been considered
```

and advertise the development to the community at large.

> Including an example JSON blob which has the fields you think might be needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Including an example JSON excerpt which has the fields you think might be needed
```

can help.

References that are particularly helpful are examples from existing
applications/formats, information about how (or if) the schema participates in

> temporal transformations, or other citations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
temporal transformations, and other relevant citations.
```

## Implementing and Iterating on a branch

Development of schemas typically takes longer and includes more feedback and
review than normal development.  To facilitate this, generally the project will
open a branch on the repository so that pull requests can be merged into the
prototype without disturbing the main branch.  For example, the
[ImageSequenceReference](https://github.com/AcademySoftwareFoundation/OpenTimelineIO/pull/602)

> branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
branch demonstrates that workflow.
```
